---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "axual_application Data Source - terraform-provider-axual"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  An application represents anything that is responsible for producing and/or consuming data on a topic, whether it is a Java or .NET app or a connector.
---

# axual_application (Data Source)

An application represents anything that is responsible for producing and/or consuming data on a topic, whether it is a Java or .NET app or a connector.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Read-Only

- `application_id` (String) The Application Id of the Application, usually a fully qualified class name. Must be unique. The application ID, used in logging and to determine the consumer group (if applicable). Read more: https://docs.axual.io/axual/2023.2/self-service/application-management.html#app-id
- `application_type` (String) Axual Application type. Possible values are Custom.
- `description` (String) Application Description. A short summary describing the application
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `name` (String) The name of the Application. Must be unique. Only the special characters _ , - and . are valid as part of an application name
- `owners` (String) Application Owner
- `short_name` (String) Application short name. Unique human-readable name for the application. Only Alphanumeric and underscore allowed. Must be unique
- `type` (String) Application software. Possible values: Java, Pega, SAP, DotNet, Bridge
- `visibility` (String) Application Visibility. Defines the visibility of this application. Possible values are Public and Private. Set the visibility to “Private” if you don’t want your application to end up in overviews such as the topic graph. Read more: https://docs.axual.io/axual/2023.2/self-service/application-management.html#app-visibility


