---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "axual_environment Data Source - terraform-provider-axual"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Environments are used typically to support the application lifecycle, as it is moving from Development to Production.  In Self Service, they also allow you to test a feature in isolation, by making the environment Private. Read more: https://docs.axual.io/axual/2023.2/self-service/environment-management.html#managing-environments
---

# axual_environment (Data Source)

Environments are used typically to support the application lifecycle, as it is moving from Development to Production.  In Self Service, they also allow you to test a feature in isolation, by making the environment Private. Read more: https://docs.axual.io/axual/2023.2/self-service/environment-management.html#managing-environments



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) Environment unique identifier

### Optional

- `description` (String) A text describing the purpose of the environment.
- `partitions` (Number) Defines the number of partitions configured for every stream of this tenant. This is an optional field. If not specified, default value is 12
- `properties` (Map of String) Environment-wide properties for all topics and applications.
- `retention_time` (Number) The time in milliseconds after which the messages can be deleted from all streams. This is an optional field. If not specified, default value is 7 days (604800000).

### Read-Only

- `authorization_issuer` (String) This indicates if any deployments on this environment should be AUTO approved or requires approval from Stream Owner. For private environments, only AUTO can be selected.
- `color` (String) The color used display the environment
- `instance` (String) The id of the instance where this environment should be deployed.
- `name` (String) A suitable name identifying this environment. This must be in the format string-string (Alphabetical characters, digits and the following characters are allowed: `- `,` _` ,` .`)
- `owners` (String) The id of the team owning this environment.
- `short_name` (String) A short name that will uniquely identify this environment. The short name should be between 3 and 20 characters. no special characters are allowed.
- `visibility` (String) Thi Private environments are only visible to the owning group (your team). They are not included in dashboard visualisations.


