# axual_application_credential (Resource)

An Application Credential is a security credential (SASL) that uniquely authenticates an Application in an Environment. Read more: https://docs.axual.io/axual/2025.1/self-service/application-management.html#configuring-application-securityauthentication

## Security
- Since password is a `sensitive` field, Terraform Provider will not print the password in `terraform plan` or `terraform apply` output.
- Terraform will save the password and username in local state file(terraform.tfstate). Please make sure that this file is appropriately secured.
- Here are best practices for securing secrets in Terraform: https://blog.gitguardian.com/how-to-handle-secrets-in-terraform/

## Required Roles
- APPLICATION_ADMIN or be part of the Team that owns the Application

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `application` (String) A valid Id of an existing application
- `environment` (String) A valid Id of an existing environment
- `target` (String) The authentication credential provider (e.g., Apache Kafka, Schema Registry).

### Read-Only

- `auth_provider` (String) The authentication provider (e.g., Apache Kafka, Schema Registry).
- `clusters` (String) Cluster information for the credentials.
- `description` (String) Description information for the credentials.
- `id` (String) Application Credential Id
- `password` (String, Sensitive) Password for the credentials. This value is sensitive and will not be printed in terraform apply output.
- `types` (List of String) List of authentication types.
- `username` (String) Username associated with the credentials

## Example Usage
- The following example can be used to generate credentials for an application in an environment for target `KAFKA`

```hcl
resource "axual_application_credential" "credentials" {
  application = "aa5600d4a7514a758bcd7b6041e5529d"
  environment = "7ae69a37da8b4477aa2f7cfbd45e8058"
  target = "KAFKA"
}
```

- For a full example which shows the capabilities of the latest TerraForm provider, check https://github.com/Axual/terraform-provider-axual/tree/master/examples/axual.
  - Please note that in this full example, `axual_application_principal` can be interchanged with `axual_application_credential` as an alternative way to authenticate.

## Viewing Credentials

- When credentials are created, they are sensitive and will not appear in the `terraform apply` or `terraform plan` output. However, there are ways to retrieve them.
- ⚠️ Warning: Please avoid printing the credentials in plaintext in the console in automated pipelines or logging systems.

### 1. Terraform Output

```hcl
output "consumer_creds" {
  sensitive = true
  value     = axual_application_credential.credentials
}
```

- Run the following command to retrieve the credentials: `terraform output consumer_creds`

### 2. Terraform State Show
- `terraform state show axual_application_credential.credentials`
  - This requires access to the state file but will display the credentials in the console.

### 3. Terraform Console
- For interactive debugging, use: `terraform console`
  - Then enter `axual_application_credential.credentials`

## Import

Import is not currently supported.